# Individual Self Assessment

Over the course of the past 24 weeks we've learned many invaluable data analysis skills, languages and technologies in the Columbia Data Analytics Bootcamp. To showcase the learnings of the course, our team created a machine learning model that analyses NYPD Crime Complaint data to predict whether a crime will be violent or non-violent given various inputs relating to the enviroment of the crime. The final model achieved an accuracy score of 74%, however, there were >500 violent crimes from the dataset that were incorrectly identified as non-violent. As with any model, there is opportunity for improving the classification model.

Personally, my role in the project majorily consisted of coding the Random Forest Classifier that we used to create the model. This required referring to resources from throughout the course, cleaning the data, dropping unnesarcy columns as well as rows that appeared to have erranous values, such as reported age of the suspect as >2000 years old. As a team we worked together when any of us individually encountered issues, utilizing working sessions over zoom. However, no project goes without its challenges. Perhaps the most challenging aspect of completing the project was mastering time management. Everyone, including myself have obligations to jobs, classes, etc. outside of this project. As such, we challenged ourselves to complete as much work as we could during our limited group sessions, which were a large part in successfully completing the project. Since every memeber of the team contributed during this time, we required very little communication outside of our working sessions, however, we utilized slack when we had any lingering work. I would also like to thank the Teaching Assistants and our Professor for sharing thier expertise when we approached them with questions.

